Edit primary branch in IDE release note and docs changes (#4972)
fishtown-analytics/docs.getdbt.com: website/docs/docs/dbt-versions/release-notes/72-Feb-2024/ide-github.md

---

> title: "New: Edit in primary branch in IDE"

Reviewer: i dont mind new but is this an enhancement to an existing system?? it's an improved user experience 

```suggestion
title: "Enhancement: Edit in primary branch in IDE"
```

> description: "February 2024: Edit access to the primary GitHub branch while in the IDE. This was previously a read-only feature."

Reviewer: hey @naomiwritescode is this only for github or for all git providers? if it's for all git providers, i think we can leave out github since we support other git providers. 

```suggestion
description: "February 2024: You can now edit directly on your primary git branch and commit those changes to a new branch when ready. This was previously a read-only feature."
```

Author: Made a separate update

> sidebar_label: "New: Edit primary branch in IDE"

Reviewer: ```suggestion
sidebar_label: "Enhancement: Edit primary branch in IDE"
```

sidebar_position: 06
tags: [Feb-2024]

> date: 2024-02-22

Reviewer: ```suggestion
date: 2024-02-23
```

---

> You can now edit the primary branch of your GitHub repo in the dbt Cloud IDE. The primary branch of GitHub has traditionally been _read-only_ in the IDE. This update changes the branch to _protected_ and allows direct edits. When a commit is made, dbt Cloud will prompt you to create a new branch. dbt Cloud will pre-populate the new branch name with the USERNAME-patch-#; however, you can edit the field with a custom branch name.

Reviewer: i tested the managed myself myself and cried of joy -- @naomiwritescode am confirming this new change applies to managed repos as well as imported git URLs right? 🙏 

```suggestion
You can now edit, format, or lint files and execute dbt commands directly in your primary git branch within the dbt Cloud IDE.  This delightful enhancement is available across various types of repositories: native integrations, imported git URLs, and managed repos.

Previously, the primary git branch provided _read-only_ access in the IDE. This update changes the primary branch to _protected_, allowing you to edit as needed. When you're ready to commit your changes, dbt Cloud will prompt you to create a new branch and pre-populate the new branch name in the following format: `GIT_USERNAME-patch-#`. You can also edit the field with a custom branch name.
```

Previously, the primary branch was displayed as read-only:

> <Lightbox src="/img/docs/dbt-cloud/using-dbt-cloud/read-only.png" width="90%" title="Old read-only experience"/>

Reviewer: ```suggestion
<Lightbox src="/img/docs/dbt-cloud/using-dbt-cloud/read-only.png" width="90%" title="Previous read-only experience"/>
```

Now, the branch is displayed with a lock icon to identify it as protected:

<Lightbox src="/img/docs/dbt-cloud/using-dbt-cloud/protected.png" width="90%" title="New protected experience"/>

> When you make a commit while on the primary branch, a model window will open prompting you to create a new branch and enter a commit message:

Reviewer: i think it's 'modal' for pop ups

```suggestion
When you make a commit while on the primary branch, a modal window will open prompting you to create a new branch and enter a commit message:
```

---
title: "New: Edit in primary branch in IDE"
description: "February 2024: Edit access to the primary GitHub branch while in the IDE. This was previously a read-only feature."
sidebar_label: "New: Edit primary branch in IDE"
sidebar_position: 06
tags: [Feb-2024]

> date: 2024-02-21

Author: ```suggestion
date: 2024-02-22
```

---

> You can now edit the primary branch of your GitHub repo in the dbt Cloud IDE. The primary branch of GitHub has traditionally been _read-only_ in the IDE. This update changes the branch to _protected_ and allows direct edits. When a commit is made, dbt Cloud will prompt you to create a new branch. debt Cloud will pre-populate the new branch name with the _username_-patch-#; however, you can edit the field with a custom branch name.

Author: ```suggestion
You can now edit the primary branch of your GitHub repo in the dbt Cloud IDE. The primary branch of GitHub has traditionally been _read-only_ in the IDE. This update changes the branch to _protected_ and allows direct edits. When a commit is made, dbt Cloud will prompt you to create a new branch. dbt Cloud will pre-populate the new branch name with the _username_-patch-#; however, you can edit the field with a custom branch name.
```

> You can now edit the primary branch of your GitHub repo in the dbt Cloud IDE. The primary branch of GitHub has traditionally been _read-only_ in the IDE. This update changes the branch to _protected_ and allows direct edits to be made. When a commit is made, dbt Cloud will prompt the developer to create a new branch. dbt Cloud will pre-populate the new branch name with the _username_-patch-#, however, the user can edit the field with a custom branch name.

Author: ```suggestion
You can now edit the primary branch of your GitHub repo in the dbt Cloud IDE. The primary branch of GitHub has traditionally been _read-only_ in the IDE. This update changes the branch to _protected_ and allows direct edits. When a commit is made, dbt Cloud will prompt you to create a new branch. debt Cloud will pre-populate the new branch name with the _username_-patch-#; however, you can edit the field with a custom branch name.
```

The old experience was read-only:

<Lightbox src="/img/docs/dbt-cloud/using-dbt-cloud/read-only.png" width="90%" title="Old read-only experience"/>

> Now the branch is displayed with a lock icon to identify it as a protected branch:

Author: ```suggestion
The branch is now displayed with a lock icon to identify it as a protected branch:
```

<Lightbox src="/img/docs/dbt-cloud/using-dbt-cloud/protected.png" width="90%" title="New protected experience"/>

> When you a commit to the branch, you receive a prompt that warns them that it is a protected branch, with the option to cancel the commit or create a new branch:

Author: ```suggestion
When you make a commit to the branch, you receive a prompt that warns that it is a protected branch, with the option to cancel the commit or create a new branch:
```

> When a developer makes a commit to the branch, they receive a prompt that warns them that it is a protected branch, with the option to cancel the commit or create a new branch:

Author: ```suggestion
When you a commit to the branch, you receive a prompt that warns them that it is a protected branch, with the option to cancel the commit or create a new branch:
```

<Lightbox src="/img/docs/dbt-cloud/using-dbt-cloud/commit-popup.png" width="90%" title="Protected branch pop-up window"/>

> When the user chooses **Create new branch**, they are presented with the window where they can enter the branch name and commit message:

Author: ```suggestion
When you choose **Create new branch**, you are presented with a window where you can enter the branch name and commit message:
```
